docs: add expo router docs (#22381)
expo/expo: docs/pages/router/overview.mdx

---
title: Expo Router

> description: Welcome to Expo Router

Reviewer: The description is to short. We use this tag for SEO and open graph. 

```suggestion
description: Welcome to Expo Router - an open-source routing library for React Native applications built with Expo.
```

We can just the first line here. If you have suggestion for a better description, feel free to add that.

sidebar_title: Overview
---

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { BoxLink } from '~/ui/components/BoxLink';

> import { BookOpen02Icon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { GithubIcon } from '@expo/styleguide-icons';
```

> Expo Router is a routing library for React Native applications built with Expo. It provides a way to manage navigation between screens in your app, allowing users to move between different parts of your app's UI seamlessly, using the same components on multiple platforms (iOS, Android, Web, etc).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo Router is a routing library for React Native applications built with Expo. It provides a way to manage navigation between screens in your app, allowing users to move between different parts of your app's UI seamlessly, using the same components on multiple platforms (Android, ios, Web, and so on).
```

Question: having "etc." at the end of platform list, is that intentional?

- Referencing platforms as per our writing styleguide (https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#referencing-android-ios-and-web)
- Also, let's avoid latin abbr. such as "etc." (https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#abbreviations)

> Expo Router brings the best routing concepts from the web to native iOS and Android apps. Every file in the **app** directory automatically becomes a route in your mobile navigation, making it easier than ever to build, maintain, and scale your project. It's built on top of our powerful [React Navigation suite](https://reactnavigation.org/) enabling truly native navigation. The entire deep linking system is automatically generated live, so users can share links to any route in your app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Expo Router brings the best file-system routing concepts from the web to native Android and iOS apps. When a file is added to the **app** directory, it automatically becomes a route in your mobile navigation. It makes building, maintaining, and scaling your project easier than ever. It's built on top of our powerful [React Navigation suite](https://reactnavigation.org/), enabling truly native navigation. The entire deep linking system is automatically generated live so that users can share links to any route in your app.
```

Just introducing the concept of "every file in **app** directory" doesn't make sense to me. I've left a suggestion with some re-phrasing and a little bit more context.

> ## Quick Start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Quick start
```

Heading in doc has to be sentence case as per our writing styelguide: https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#headings

> Run the following to create a project with `expo-router` setup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a project with `expo-router`, run the following command that comes with the automatic setup:
```

<Terminal
  cmd={['$ npx create-expo-app@latest --example with-router']}
  cmdCopy="npx create-expo-app@latest --example with-router"
/>

> <BoxLink
>   title="Example source"
>   Icon={BookOpen02Icon}
>   description="See the example source code on GitHub."
>   href="https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-router"
> />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<BoxLink
  title="Example app"
  Icon={GithubIcon}
  description="See the source code for example app on GitHub."
  href="https://github.com/expo/examples/tree/master/with-router"
/>
```

Let's use `GithubIcon` in this scenario. We do that in other places as well where there is an example app/source code that points towards a GitHub repo. Example:
<img width="879" alt="CleanShot 2023-05-19 at 02 19 24@2x" src="https://github.com/expo/expo/assets/10234615/ba0bcb69-e0ae-4ff9-8dbd-394dbaf6ce15">

## Features

> - **Native** Truly native navigation with the most cutting-edge developer experience.
> - **Deep linking** Every screen in your app is automatically deep linkable. Making any part of your app shareable.
> - **Offline-first** Apps are cached and run offline-first, with automatic updates when you publish a new version. Handles all incoming native URLs without a network connection or server.
> - **Scale** Apps are built with a modular architecture that scales to any size. Refactoring and upgrading are a breeze due to the declarative nature of the API.
> - **Iteration** Universal Fast Refresh across iOS, Android, and web along with artifact memoziation in the bundler keep you moving fast at scale.
> - **Cross-Platform** Expo Router is a large step towards universal React apps. The same codebase can be used to build iOS, Android, and web apps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Native**: Truly native navigation with the most cutting-edge developer experience.
- **Deep linking**: Every screen in your app is automatically deep linkable. Making any part of your app shareable.
- **Offline-first**: Apps are cached and run offline-first, with automatic updates when you publish a new version. Handles all incoming native URLs without a network connection or server.
- **Scale**: Apps are built with a modular architecture that scales to any size. Refactoring and upgrading are a breeze due to the declarative nature of the API.
- **Iteration**: Universal Fast Refresh across Android, iOS, and web, along with artifact memoization in the bundler to keep you moving fast at scale.
- **Cross-Platform**: Expo Router is a large step towards universal React apps. The same codebase can be used to build Android, Android, and web apps.
```

## Troubleshooting

> If you run into any issues, please check the [troubleshooting guide](./troubleshooting). If you're still running into problems, please [open an issue](https://github.com/expo/router/issues).

Reviewer: Let's remove Troubleshooting section here and instead use `BoxLink` components to different and important part of the Expo Router docs.

For example:
- Routing
- Layouts
- Styling
- Assets
- Troubleshooting (and then we can add link to the guide Troubleshooting)
- Link to the GitHub repo for issues (or maybe do not add a link to the GitHub repo at all here and just add that to the Troubleshooting page)
